I think blaming soloqueue there is some
deep deep issue with soul accuser ping
and stuff like that the amount of
players available and stuff but it's one
more excuses sing na is really good at
making excuses whatever they are what
week six of na LCS I'm joined right now
by Romain the manager general manager
and now general manager general general
manager for optic gaming after a series
of victories for optic as they've been
climbing their way out from the bottom
of na LCS standings and it looks like
it's working what what has been going on
behind the scenes cuz I think a lot of
people no offense had started kind of
write off optic a little bit in the NA
LCS I think we had a terrible firstly
due to a lack of infrastructure like
physical proper infrastructure we fixed
a lot of stuff during midseason we moved
to a 10 man roster allowing the coaching
staff to put more pressure on the main
roster digitally every single of our
player has been benched for at least one
day which is in a really healthy way
because it's it's 10 people working
towards a common goal even if you see
most of the time the same 5 guys on
stage is a huge huge attack of people
working so I have I have to say congrats
to the coaching staff congrats to Zeb
who has to come up to class now they're
doing a really good job it's showing on
stage so I'm extremely happy about it
how how are the guys sort of maintaining
and how are you guys helping the guys
maintain their mentality because I think
a lot of people you know the interview
power of evil last week you talked about
just how hard it was to deal with so
many losses early on yeah it is and then
we had terrible weeks of scream now we
fixed it it's it's way better I think it
comes down to structure you need to have
the feeling to go to work but you need
to also have the feeling instant really
work so you feel the structure you feel
the timing you feel the way you work the
way you talk about the scream and stuff
like that I think I think we're
improving on that regard
definitely what do you think of the
state of anything else yes because
everyone is really close right like I
you know you watch TSM lose to cloud
nine who up until today we're a team and
TSM who's like a historic it just it
feels really weird right now and you
guys have had this in you by the way
before we had I need you before I think
it's extremely
if I was off camera I would say it's a
disaster but it's it's banned because
whoever's gonna make it out it's gonna
Trump it's gonna be traumatized like
unless someone is able to keep winning
again and again and again meaning is
they have a winning recipe at the end of
the day is a guy which is gonna win an
LCS it's gonna be like okay I did it but
could have been you or could have been
you or could have been you and is no way
you're gonna be efficient once you're
gonna face misfeed phonetic and I'm not
even gonna discuss Korea and China the
way they are playing right now so I
think it's extremely scary but let's see
let's see whoever's gonna win at the end
of the day I hope it's gonna be the same
team consistently destroying everyone do
you think that object has a chance of
winning finals yes like ask me the same
question three weeks ago I would have
said murder I would have been a
marketing yes now what is yes we are on
three weeks and the way we want those
three games up it's good so yes we
definitely have a chance which is scary
for any kind of because when I see the
amount of money coaching staff and
resources investing on some teams I
would expect them to be technically
better than us but yeah mixed room yep
yeah do what what is it what do you
think of the fact that because we we did
an interview at the starless plate where
you were talking candidly about the fact
that you guys didn't go out there and
spend to get like the biggest names with
the highest win rate records you found a
more humble team that you wanted to grow
golden Guardians did that similarly
clutch to this similarly and I think at
the end of last split I would have told
you well you know it looks like you go
out there you just find some veterans
you find some big names you hire them
pay them a ton of money you're gonna win
but this split we're seeing golden
Guardians win we're seeing you guys
start to rise up and throw down some of
these guys what do you think it means
that we're seeing more parity despite
the difference in spending and resources
and all that
I think the franchise model is starting
to kick in and whatever you build on you
capitalizing on it which is definitely
interesting and seeing some of the big
dogs being a bit shaky at the moment yes
it's not really good for the long terms
of the business but it also means the
new orgs are doing things properly and
and because when you an old dog whatever
you were doing before you're gonna keep
doing it and
most of those new orgs we had to create
everything from scratch allowing us to
correct things way faster like the gold
indeed for example and they are now on
fire for example we're gonna have we're
starting to have a good good run as well
so I think it's it's a validation of the
franchise model making it really
interesting I believe for Europe and
let's see what's gonna happen in
November with we do you need to spend
the half a million bucks on a really
solid player or should you go for those
individuality and making sure they match
together because you you LCS and ICS any
LCS is a marathon its nine months so
yeah of course you have the honeymoon
phase and you can add in and skip more
people we just saw Kiki's in Europe for
example winning and I believe is really
good to create those honeymoon context
well everyone's gonna be hype and stuff
may yeah but the the power of
structuring training I think is is what
we're seeing right now one of the
interesting things that happened you're
speaking of the EU teams when rift
rivals hit was a lot of the EU players
came over and started talk about any
infrastructure right whether it's solo
queue whether it's the ping whether it's
any of that stuff you're in an
interesting position where you were
leading a team over there that had the
benefits of sort of that more like
technological player whatever you want
to say infrastructure and now you're
here so what do you see your whole take
on all that conversation I think the
status of solo queue is it good is it
bad it's an excusable like it's it's an
excuse they masking the fact that there
is a problem with motivation and that so
that's something I was discussing with
Monsieur Thorin and not too long ago
which I believe in in Europe to get a
lot of money and a good infrastructure
you need to be good player in na you
just need to be a player it's I'm not
even blaming it on the guys I'm blaming
it maybe on the org and I include us at
the same time which is turtle being in
na LCS players is offering you a level
of comfort which is the level of comfort
you should strive for and in because you
have it why would you keep all this sick
motivation when you already have the
money is the ladies in the sick parties
and a really nice atmosphere and the
best coaching stuff and stuff like that
so and once again it goes down to the
coaching that how do you make sure those
guys stay motivated because once you're
gonna be on stage versus Taiwan or or or
any of those supposed to be lower teams
they hate to kill they hate they hate to
draw blood and have the feeling
whoever's gonna win an LCS right now
might not be the most motivated team in
the international level it's going to be
the most motivated off na but so yeah I
think blaming soloqueue there is some
deep deep issue with solo q siping and
stuff like that the amount of players
available and stuff but it's one more
excuses sing na is really good at making
excuses whatever they are you mention
sick parties remain where are these sick
parties I have not been to sick parties
I've been to one or two maybe like it
wants to split there's an OK party it's
getting really bright out of here all of
a sudden but I I wear the sick parties
at I've been to one only in in seven
months but just walking in this body and
seeing all those beautiful people it's
like from from a player perspective when
you end up in a party and you have the
top level of twitch people some really
nice riot people some rain and it which
makes sense we in LA we in the beating
heart of eSport you have also big
company and stuff like that should be
the kind of stuff in your dream you know
but you can have it just by being a
player
so what word you get this extra
motivation allowing you to go the extra
mile and that's also one of the reason
why all the EU guy came here and were
like oh my god and it's nice and they
all said n is nice so don't use trash
but na is nice they loved it I'm just
I'm super distracted by the setlist
badass parties now or the sick parties
because I I just want to know where
these are so it sounds like we have
better parties than to you know actually
with different party than to use with in
na you're gonna have parties each pop I
think I think the parties are better in
Berlin for example Bellinis insane for
really good party but you have to leave
the sport eco system and it has way
better in sport parties like like but
miles away I have never seen such a high
level of eSport partying you let's
phrase it that way
alright back out for the party so cuz
that's just fascinating to me
alright so other than that you know
we're what do you think of optics path
to getting to this place as an
organization right because I again like
really disappointing strict spring split
how do you feel about all the work that
you guys have done to bring you there
was the spring split just part of the
process or was it like a lot of missteps
that you get made like what what was
sort of the path here I think it's big
was
part of the process I had I had a
specific way in my head to how team
needs to be performant and stuff it took
time to make sure everyone was on the
same page it's like when you play a
rugby for example this is a rule which
is the guy with the ball takes a
decision it might be a bad decision
unless the 15 guys on the pitch are
committing to it you never could know
how good it is
so it took a bit of time for us to make
sure we're all in the same path and the
same way and now it's now it's I mean we
were three also for us so I think we
made sure everyone was working the same
way which might be a bit difficult
actually when you draft big egos because
when you draft a lot of successful
players they all have this specific way
to how to win the game and if they're
not all on the same path well maybe at
one point it's going to blow up so
that's why sometimes it's easier to work
with rookies because they're just gonna
say yes to whatever you tell them so
maybe you don't have the best ID but
when five guys are playing the same
stuff is easier yeah good anything that
you want to say to any of the fans out
there
thank you follows a few of you which
like optic league of legend I know we've
been sucking at content recently we are
working really hard to make it back to
you guys and the more we're gonna win
the more enjoyable it's gonna be so
thanks way easier to make content when
everyone's in a good mood I would I was
first and winning is the best content is
that something about what's our thinking
a lot because I'm I got drafted from uni
comes of love and everyone was like hey
maybe you can just do the same stuff but
the difference is unique on sort of was
winning a lot they and they had was
amazing wins the TSM wonned is they made
playoff every single time they made
finals a lot of time so at least you
create this yeah we yeah we we're
different but we're winning so you still
want to like us you when you start an
oak from scratch you have nothing so now
it's gonna get better well thank you so
much for the interview congratulations
on the win streak looking forward to
seeing it possibly continue in the next
couple of days you can check out the
rest of my coverage of all things these
sports right here on my youtube channel
hey hope you enjoyed that interview I
certainly did I I'm actually gonna
re-watch it several several several
times after this anyway my point is I
want to say thanks to Omni slash for
supporting this content and also wanted
to mention something to you if you're
running adblock on this YouTube channel
right now that's sad but I've got a way
at what you didn't make me happy if you
have Amazon Prime you can get twitch
Prime you just
linked your Amazon primary twitch
account you can link click the twitch
link in the YouTube description and give
me a free twitch Prime that's actually
kind of cool anyway thanks again ami /
thanks for watching that's it